Let's talk about architecture.
I've used this quote before, I will keep
using this quote, because I think it's so
absolutely important.
So this is from a paper called Out of
the Tarpit Ben Moseley Peter Marks.
If you Google it, you can find it,
it's free and I recommend reading
I don't know about half way through
the paper it got a little academic.
But right in the first page,
they make this point, and,
it has stuck with ever since.
The biggest problem in the development and
maintenance of large scale
software systems is complexity.
Large systems are hard to understand.
Everybody collectively just be like,
duh but what do we mean by complexity?
We believe that the major
contributor to this complexity in
many systems is the handling of state and
the burden that this adds when trying
to analyze and reason about the system.
Other closely related
contributors are code volume,
and explicit concern with the flow
of control through the system.
So, for me, I believe that Redux and
by extension NgRx is probably one
of the most important inventions or
compositions in the modern
frontend web stack.
And when we look at complexity,
more on this,
that there are a number
of layers that exist
within an entire application stack.
You have your cloud infrastructure.
You have Nx, NgRx, Component
Driven Architecture, Observables.
And what's interesting about this is that,
so
one you could replace NgRx with Redux and
depending on how you do react,
this still absolutely applies.
That every one of these layers
are concerned with managing complexity.
At a micro level, so
observables are phenomenal,
because at an interaction level or
an event level it allows you to manage
state, flow control, and code volume.
And as you start to iterate over this
that component driven architecture
allows you to manage complexity
at the presentation layer.
That NgRx or Redux allows you to manage
complexity at the state layer or
the application layer.
Nx when I say Nx, I mean Nx Dev tools
by Narwhal that this allows you
to manage complexity at
the file structure level, and
then infrastructure level that you can
use things like infrastructures code.
I'm a pretty big fan of
the serverless framework, lambda and
these different things Docker.
But ultimately what you're doing is you're
managing complexity at a macro level.
And so when we realize that we're
managing complexity kind of
in this vertical orientation on the stack,
that we can start to
think about like what are the patterns
that exist going this way?
And at the same time, historically,
when we build applications and
so this is a really, really important
shift that we need to make.
We think of application development
in a vertical sense of like
we've got this feature and
we need to build this thing.
So we might need to build
the component layer and
then we need to build like the state
layer then we need to build
let's say your HTTP layer to
your server communication layer.
And then you move on the next feature and
you move on the next feature and
you move on to the next feature.
And so this is when we think
of application development.
And we are vertically oriented just by
default this is just how this works so
if you think about how our teams organized
typically within an organization well.
It's usually around product teams or
feature teams and the problem is that and
remember I said we are managing
complexity at these various levels.
That across these features we are managing
that complexity the same exact way.
But when you are in a vertical slice if
you solve a problem in one slice and
somebody else solves it in another slice,
how do you know about that?
And so what you have is,
you have these decoupled architecture
in not a good way I would say
it's essentially cohesion,
that like anti cohesion versus.
And so now we think of just by default
vertical development I building
this feature and
I'm working on this layer right here and
then I'm gonna move to this one
I'm gonna move to this one.
And we fail to realise
that as we build our
features that there is
a lot of commonality,
a lot of patterns to be recognized
across all of the components.
There is a lot of convention
that exist across
the logic layer around
all of these features and
the data layer exactly the same.
And so what we start to notice
is that when you start to
shift your thinking from
a vertical orientation,
I'm thinking about this implementation
in the context of this feature.
And you start to think about
your applications horizontally
in other words not about the feature but
about the particular layer.
So I don't want to think about
the service for courses so
I have a service course I want to
think about all of the services
that this allows you to start to
notice patterns of convention.
This also allows you to notice
patterns of duplication to
where like I'm doing this thing over here.
But over here in this other feature,
I'm doing this thing over here.
And as a result, we realized that for
convention that this is a candidate,
we can optimize this through
automation and through automation,
that tactically we can build tools for
generation.
In terms of duplication, that duplication
is optimized via elimination.
How do we do that?
Well consolidation and
so if you remember back
to my quote complexity managing of state.
So now with Redux the reason why I love
this is you have all of your code or
all of your state in a single
state tree you are eliminating all
these floating stateful bits.
And you're consolidating them
into a single state tree.
And its the same time, is that with
reactive frameworks like angular and
react, that you're now because
everything is consolidated, it's a lot
easier to control how that information
flows through your application.
So unidirectional data flow, you even get
a separation between commands and queries.
So when they say state
flows down events flow up,
well queries state flows down,
that's all in one direction.
You have an established one way street,
unidirectional for
those four state to flow down, and
then you can issue commands back up.
And so you start to recognize the patterns
between convention and duplication.
More importantly,
it's really important to understand
that convention is not duplication.
And so it's very common with
like Redux and NgRx to say like,
well, there's just all
this boilerplate and
boilerplate implies code
that doesn't need to
exist extraneous code, ie duplicated code.
And just because something
looks similar to something else
doesn't mean that they're
doing the same exact thing.
In fact, if they're operating
on different domain models,
they're definitely not
doing the same thing.
In other words, you couldn't just replace
one with the other and vice versa.
And so it's really important to understand
that duplication is not convention
convention is not duplication.
And convention is good because
it presents an opportunity for
automation via generation duplication,
believe it or
not, when you recognize it
presents an opportunity for
elimination by consolidation.
So, when we achieve clear functional
cohesion from cleanly abstracted layers,
natural patterns of
convention will emerge.
So this is really, really important and
I don't want to rush to this statement
because it's a little dense.
But when we're able to take our code and
create functional cohesion,
other words that things that
do similar things are or
perform a function is that
they're being grouped together.
So, cohesion is basically
just logical grouping.
It's like the opposite of
coupling that when we can create
functional cohesion into cleanly,
abstracted layers.
That all of a sudden you start
to realize that there is
a lot of convention that exists
within this application.
And so, this is too big for a tweet but,
fine-grained functionality reduces
code variance between domain models.
This is why if you go read any
classic architecture book and,
not even classic like,
pretty much most architects, and
people that are creating
content in the space.
That they're constantly talking about
fine grained single purpose code.
So, fine grained functionality,
reduces covariances between domain models.
And when you have fine grained
functionality what you
realize is that performing
an action on one model is
almost identical to the same
action on any other model.